This is the tale of Rustam and Sohrab. It is fraught with tears, and sorrow.
It began long ago when the great warrior-hero Rustam had his horse Raksh stolen.
Looking for his horse he came to a palace where he met princess Tahmina.
Tahmina went into Rustam’s chamber and told him that she has not been able to find a man suitable enough to father her child,
and that she wanted Rustam to father her child and she would find his horse in return.
Rustam agreed, they were married and he left the next day
giving a jewel to Tahmina to give to their child if one is to be born.
Nine months passed and a moon like babe was born. Tahmina had a son whom she named Sohrab,
and he grew up to be a great warrior just like his father Rustam.
One day Sohrab gathered an army and set out to find his father and make him king of Iran.
Sohrab did not know what his father looked like, he only knew his name.
When he met Rustam, Rustam denied that he was the mighty Rustam
and they battled for a long time, until their weapons were broken and bent.
They parted and when Rustam returned to his camp he found Sohrab there and he had slain many men.
Rustam was angry at what he saw and asked Sohrab why he did this when nothing was done to provoke him.
They argued for a while and when they parted and Sohrab went back to his camp.
The next day when Sohrab met Rustam he offered to make peace with Rustam saying:
“Dismount and, sitting, clear our faces with wine, and, leaguing in God’s sight, repent Our former strife.”
Suhrab once more asked him if he was Rustam but Rustam rejected his proposal and once again denied being Rustam.
They fought and wrestled for a long time. Sohrab had Rustam pinned and ready to kill him but Rustam tricked him into letting him go saying:
“In wrestling none may take a foeman’s head The first time that his back is on the ground,
but having thrown him twice and won the name of Lion then he may behead the foe: Such is our custom.”
Sohrab believed him, turned and left.
The next day they met and battled once again. This time Rustam managed to throw Sohrab down and stab him.
As Sohrab lay there bleeding he said “My mother told me how I should recognize my father.
I sought him in love and die of my desire. Alas! my toils are vain, I have not seen him.“
He said his father Rustam will come and avenge his death.
Hearing this Rustam became distraught and asked Sohrab for proof of this and Sohrab showed him the arm band.
Then Rustam realized what he had just done and began to weep.
“Oh! My brave son, approved by all and slain by me.“
Rustam threw dust upon himself, wept and pulled onto his own hair until he bled.
Sohrab told him that there was no use in killing himself, that would not change anything.
When the other soldiers found out what had happened they all began to mourn with Rustam.
Rustam tried to get the medicine to cure Sohrab from Kaus but Kaus refused to give it to him,
as he was scared that father and son would overthrow him, and Sohrab died.
After the death of his son Rustam was filled with anguish and sorrow that he burned all of his possessions.